It's a building on our discussion of hierarchical IP address saying
we're not going to talk about two different classes of IP addresses and what's called classful routing and then we'll eventually get into some other details about how more complicated modern internet routing actually is so I'm class full address
Seeing what we do is we assign prefix has to correspond a particular classes
So Class A would correspond to the first bite
So this most significant bite being in this range 0 to 1:27, so it'd be / 8 in the / notation
So what the prefix is required to be as the top most significant bit here is his hero
So this of course
find a very large blocks
So for example
the mighty as this block of all addresses
starting with 18
So 18
Anything
Any
Class B
Then corresponds to the first bite being in the range 128 to 191 again here
we would now assume in / 60 notation
And the prefix here would be that the top best AR-10
So this should be pretty large blocks
So for example
of Vanderbilt has this block of IP addresses
so everything's starting with one 29.50 9.0.0
Okay
so so the zeros can be any number
Classy then corresponds to having this prefix and the top number could be anything in the range 192-2223
So this would also assume in / 24 notation
and the prefix here would be the 110
Okay
So this should be fairly small blocks
These are going to be groups of 2:55 or so since it's / 24 notation
This is groups of two to the 16 or about 60,000 computers could be addressed
The should be two to the 24
So a lot of computers could be addressed here
has to be smaller blocks
So this would be in part
Many European networks Judah
Historical reasons
There's some other classes class D and classy
These are less widely used but to to 42239 are the top betzer 1110
Is it be multicast groups for handling simultaneous communication between multiple receiving nodes or classy in this is mostly reserve for future
Use
There are some special purpose
addresses with them at these rough classes with then basically Define what addresses are going to correspond to which particular networks are the
Most commonly used ones are going to be a b and c
So there are some issues that have been classical routing can lead to
So we only have a few sizes
basically a b
and c
and a problem that can arise as routers can end up knowing a lot about Class C networks because there's so many of them because they're quite small
So we need to be able to address these issues
So that the size of the internet can scale up more reasonably as the number of devices and interfaces connected increase